hi I'm Lance lamber thanks for tuning in
to the vintage vehicle show we are in
torrance california at the Edelbrock
factory if your history goes back as far
as mine does then you know that
edelbrock has always been a major player
in the hot rod scene and the racing
scene in the Bonneville scene just
everywhere whether it's high performance
there was Edelbrock well standing next
to me is Vic Edelbrock jr. Vic it is a
pleasure to have you on the vintage
vehicle show you very much and pleasure
having you here this is a fantastic
facility or how long has this been here
this museum about three years now it
will have memorabilia on the walls that
kind of take us from the 30s all the way
up to present time of where Edelbrock
has been I know you were involved in
your dad of course started the company
but you've been involved since you were
a little guy so it must be just amazing
what you've seen over the years yes i
have i just always kind of loved us and
you know when I was now when I was
knee-high it was kind of getting in the
way but I just like being with my dad
and then as I came up from there
everything here excited me and I wanted
to be part of it and it's just great to
be where it is today I know when I was a
little kid and of course didn't have a
car and had no money but I managed to
get enough together to get an Edelbrock
sticker there you go yeah that does that
that's always been a lot of fun yes I'm
fantastic Carter can we take a look at a
few of them you sure can you sure can't
probably very early on I I know your dad
had a 32 Ford that he used as kind of a
test bed for his equipment but also the
midget here the midget racing he got
into that very early correct very early
actually got started a little bit before
World War two the one behind me here is
a is a Curtiss craft built by Frank
Curtis who completely redesigned midget
thinking and midget technology so this
was number seven built by by Curtis and
in it my dad was very fortunate to have
it and then as it came along and
everybody understood it completely
rewrote the record books of all midget
racing here on the west coast am I
correct in that what was probably the
most earth-shaking thing about this is
the fact that was powered by ford
flathead rather than off
our motor well they had two circuits not
everybody could afford an Offenhauser
motor number one and so they so they had
a flathead v8 60 circuit and they had a
at an Offenhauser what they call the
blue circuit this was a red circuit now
my dad first built the v8 60 and he
bought that in in nineteen late 45 early
46 and then in 1947 he built an off he
and he ran both cars and when he did out
of the seven days a week you were recent
five days and and then trying to run his
little business he could only do that
for a year but he did it up and down the
coast but the important part of this car
is is the fact that it was the first car
ever to run nitromethane in in in the
United States and it was because where
my father found the dueling brothers
were in culver city down the street from
where my father's little shop was and
they had already found it because they
had slot cars that they used to race
look then if you buy one if you find one
today it's a very rare thing to have and
they raced it on a slot track and they
had to go fast and they they found this
nitro methane which was a rocket fuel
and then they gave some to my dad to run
and they ran it and they saw what it
would do and they were able to make
everything work with you no more jetting
and colder spark plugs and all that
stuff to figure all that out and when
they got all through they came forty
percent horsepower in this in this
engine one of my favorite cars is a 44
time surrounded by them right now what
do you have going on here well it's your
favorite card it's mine too back when I
was 16 I wanted a 44 that was 50 51
could not find one nobody if they had
one they didn't want to sell it and so I
settled on a 46 Ford convertible
unfortunately I used that then I sold it
i should have hung on to it but we
didn't hindsight but anyway I finally
Roy breezy Oh has built a lot of cars in
here for me and we were at a party one
of our parties that at the SEMA Show one
year in Las Vegas and party was kind of
over with and Roy was there knows the
guy
with Roy and I said Roy what we can do
about a 44 I want to build a 44 and a
guy with him says well I've got a steel
body I said what I said come on let's
get together and so bought the body from
him that didn't have the frame and then
these are all they're both original
bodies but they're all framed and
front-end suspension and everything that
Roy uses so it's not like like a riginal
stock and in this one here we got a 302
with a dual quad manifold on an
automatic transmission this is the 351
with a five-speed must hang transmission
and I just love it got the coop first
story on the coop was that didn't want
to film it ray says you got a flame and
I said I don't want to flame it and so
he had the car up there for he was
fixing something for us and he called me
up he says Vic I just flamed your car I
said you what and he did and actually I
gotta say it looks it looks very very
very good so so you were upset you went
back to get the car you looked at it and
went ok I saw and I knew that was the
right thing to do I just I love it I
love Alex oven and you know someday I'd
like to do a convertible I might but
right now I got these two guys they look
like two of the best in the country so
they're absolutely gorgeous well thank
you very much we enjoy them very much
there's Camaros and there's Camaros and
I think we have one that is at the top
of this the being the most fantastic one
around Vic tell us a little bit about
this car well this is a hot rod test car
and this was the number three SS 350
small block chevy camaro built in the
late 66 this is the third one this is
the third one first one in California
this came out to hot rod and hot rod had
a cover shot of this with a drag chute
behind it and then of course the guys at
hot rod didn't return it back Jim they
use it as a test car it's gone from
everything from small blocks they put a
big block in it and it had quite a quite
a life important thing to for it was the
fact that when it was still small block
and Jim MacFarlane was editor of the of
the magazine who worked for me for over
20 years
Jim did an article on a new manifold and
a new carburetor that we worked out with
Holly called a three barrel and we did
it on this car and of course that being
in Hot Rod Magazine just really opened
the doors we sold a lot of that product
it was a kind of a nice stepping stone
for beretta Brock so that's why this car
is really special